Okay.
So we have successfully configured the Tailwind Access Utility Library in our view application.
And in this lesson we're going to see how it helps us really easily and quickly style our elements.
So on the left hand side, I've opened up our app component and right now it only consists of a single
one.
And on the right hand side I have my browser and we can see that H1 being rendered at the very top there
with no styles.
So the way Tailwind works is we're simply going to add a bunch of classes to each element.
Remember, you can almost think of Tailwind as being this collection of hundreds, if not thousands
of six classes that are available to use out of the box.
So now they're immediately available in this file and in any other component file that we want, we
don't have to define anything down below in a style section.
They're now available globally and we can simply add them on right here.
So for example, let's say I want to add some margin to the top of my H1.
Well, tailwind has a whole bunch of margin classes.
They're all going to start with the letter M and they start from margin.
And then for that, the classes that are only going to add margin at the very top, those classes are
all going to begin with empty.
It's going to be empty, followed by a dash.
And this is still part of the sizes class name.
And then what tailwind likes to do is have numbers.
So for example, empty one is going to be the smallest amount of top margin than empty two, empty,
three, empty, four, so on and so forth.
So for example, I can add a class here like Empty eight, this is an available tailwind class.
I'm going to save this.
And on the right hand side, you can see that's going to add margin.
Right.
And as you might guess, if I instead went with a class like Empty four, that's going to be about half
as much margin.
There we go.
And if I went with a larger class like empty 12, that's going to be a little bit more margin.
All right.
I'm going to reduce this back down to empty eight.
And you might be curious.
Okay.
Let's makes sense.
Perfect.
We have all these available classes, but how do you know it's called empty?
And how do you find all these available classes that you can add?
Well, for that, you can head to the official tailwind documentation.
So I have that open here in a second tab.
And so on this site, there is usually going to be a helpful search button or a search input.
So for example, here's one on the front page and I can simply search for something like margin and
then find the page for that.
For example, here's margin.
And on a page like this, you're going to see all of the available access classes that Tailwind gives
you as well as the actual properties.
This, this is the actual CSS code that's going to add.
So if I show all classes, you can scroll down and you can see there's going to be a whole bunch of
them.
So as you might guess, empty is margin top.
But there's also going to be Amby for margin bottom and AL for margin left.
And as I scroll down, there's going to be a whole bunch of them and eventually you're going to find
the ones that you're looking for.
So this is how I was able to find Empty eight.
If I just scroll down here, I was able to find Empty eight somewhere here.
Let me see here.
I mean, if I do a find there we go.
There is margin top eight and you can see it adds a margin type of two RAM which assuming a default
font size of 16 pixels is about 32 pixels of top margin.
Right.
And of course, there's classes for margin on only the left, margin on left and right margin of only
the right, etc..
And yes, there is somewhat of a learning curve because you have to learn all these classes.
But once you master one Tailwind project, the classes are going to be the same when you transition
to another talent project.
And in addition, they're not usually that difficult to remember the kind of intuitive, like empty
kind of make sense margin top.
And once you memorize that and you remember that there's a numeric component, then it's simply a matter
of adjusting up or down until you get to the desired look, right?
So yes, there is a learning curve, but I found that it wasn't too crazy.
Right?
Let me give you another example of some helper classes that Tailwind gives us.
So for example, let's say I wanted to make this text a little bit larger, so font size, so there's
a whole bunch of tailwind classes that begin with the prefix text and that's part of the CSS as class
name.
And so usually it's going to be text dash followed by again some kind of a qualifier or identifier.
So for example, we have a text six XL class and that deals with font size.
So when I save that, you can see we're going to get this much larger H1 if you want to reduce it.
As you might guess, there's a text for Excel class and that's going to make it a little bit smaller.
Let's return this back to six Excel.
And once again, how do you find these classes?
You can start with the tail end documentation and here, for example, is the search icon and click
on that and search for the seasons property that you're trying to find the classes for.
So for example, font size, go to that page and you're going to see a whole bunch of classes dealing
with that.
So text access, text, some text algae, of course, that's short for large in the same way that Esim
is for small going all the way up to text six Excel.
Right.
And again, all of these classes are available out of the box, so you can simply add them to whatever
HTML element you want as a class and tailwind will take care of the site.
All right.
Same principle here.
And similarly, let's say we wanted to center this bunch of text.
So alignment, right?
There is another series of classes also beginning with the word text and that's going to deal with alignment.
And there is one that we're looking for here.
Called Text Center.
So we can save that.
And that is going to center our text.
All right.
And that's as simple as Tailwind gets.
And that's the beautiful part about it, is as we navigate throughout the course, what I'm going to
do when we're working with CSC is I'm just going to write class next to the element I'm trying to style.
And we're just going to add on a bunch of Tailwind classes.
It might be one class or it might be ten.
But the idea here is that we don't have to worry about other CSC problems, like naming things, nesting
things with things like sass or less.
All we have is a whole bunch of utility classes that can accomplish basically everything we're going
to need.
And someone's going to be able to type out a whole bunch of these classes in a row, and then we're
going to get the styling we want.
And that's the beautiful and super fluid and fast part of how Tailwind helps us write our styles very
quickly.
All right.
So earlier in the course, again, we talk about having style sections in our components and then scoping
them so that the styles don't escape.
We really don't even have to worry about that problem at all or even having a style section because
Tailwind is basically going to give us all the CC utility classes we need to style our components and
our styles to resemble the actual Google Careers website.
All right.
So that's a good way to start learning about tailwind.
In the very next lesson, I'm going to show you an extension that we can install in this code so we
can get a lot of help with finding out these styles without having to consult the official Tailwind
documentation.
So I will see you in the next lesson.